Last Week Tonight with John Oliver appears to be a well researched show that is only comedy in the sense that it uses humour as a method of delivery. It is news, parsed and analysed, and it is opinions, and those are largely opinions I agree with.

Much of it available on youtube, not even pirated!

Sometimes it hits a little wrong, though, especially in the cheap comedy dunks. I don't mean the appearance-based dunks; the show is usually steering clear of weaponising appearance against women through sexualised objectification, and I have settled for that.

I think it is mostly when it picks up some indication of a person's inner life, and uses the odd or unusual elements of that in a dismissive fashion. That hits a little close to home for me, as a person who often perceives and experiences life slightly differently from what most people seem to expect.

I won't say I'm not an oddball - a word used for Ed Miliband. But I do think people who are dismissive of oddballs:
	* miss out on a tremendous amount of insight
	 (many are "oddballs" because they take note of things that others find insignificant, and incorporate that in their reasoning)
	* risk amplifying a great sense of isolation that comes from having people notice you seem different from them in an unusual way
		- and treat that difference as very significant
		- but also treat it with zero curiosity

I have seen a lot of people act in ways that do not serve their own best interest, and pursue their goals or needs in ways that are virtually guaranteed to fail.

When do I see this? When they are really invested in getting what they are after, and very frustrated that they are not getting it. This is usually occurring between two people who, at this level of abstraction, experience very similar problems, and who are both reacting to that experience in a way that amplifies conflict and intensifies the problems experienced by both.

That happens to me as well. And when you start feeling like you can't get what you desperately need in a situation, it may help to take a moment to think about what you actually want to happen, what a good outcome would actually be at this point, and resolve to effectively pursue and value that outcome.

And in the heat of the moment, it is very easy to forget to do any such thing.

So when you are going into a potentially heated debate with accusations and disparagements flying, with the measuring of lives in money and of humanity in nationality and skin colour, where the parties involved may genuinely perceive their adversary as dumb, delusional or evil, keeping some simple and effective reminders of what headspace you need to be in is... extremely sensible. Is it not?

If you put "Happy Warrior" as a reminder, you have a whole poem's worth of reminders about what your motivations are. Those two words could give you the awareness in the moment to find your way out of emotionally driven reactions where your message is steered entirely by the urge to reject what the other person said, or by frustration that the other person can be so stupid, and back to taking actions you have devised as suited to your goals and needs.

I know little of him otherwise, but the note that was found I consider a strong point in his favour. He has thought about how and why he debates, and he has taken steps to be effective. It is extremely sensible.