Gilmore Girls is strange. Great in so many ways, frustrating in a few, and of the shows that mean most to me, the most mean spirited and indulgent one: elements of it reflect somebody's sense of superiority. Especially when it comes to music choices.

I think the show does not bother much with sensitivity, and here and there some statements cause me real distress. It is not the occasional drop of casual homophobia or transphobia of the mildest order, "slight comedic othering of people who are not straight", that bother me. But the women the show chooses to elevate, and the manner in which those it does not elevate are discussed, is more genuinely hostile and intertwined with toxic entitlement to judgement over women's lives.

Emily is really... such a powerful act.

To speak of what I appreciate and what I am conflicted or annoyed about, is to reveal information that could otherwise be revealed through watching the show. I figure it deserves a watch.

The main characters are mother and daughter, Lorelai and Rory Gilmore. They are close, and while they have many stable connections outside of their relationship to one another, *things* tend to get in the way when they try to include more people in their family of two.

Things I struggle with:

I wonder if the show fails to realise that Rory is on a path that she chose, eagerly, at a time in life that is simply a little soon for lifelong commitments, and that the path has been part of her identity ever since, part of what is always said of her, part of what others reflect to her that she is defined by. I wonder if the show ever asks if she is doing all of this for herself. I feel like it does not.

I am sensitive to the lousy behaviour of boys and men, tired of the demonstrations of power and the expectations of control, and so, even when it makes for a good narrative, I feel like the show gives me too much of the sort.

And it breaks my heart and disappoints the narrative when people learn lessons and discover new beauty in trust, only to reach all the way back into their prior insecurities, and beyond that into unprecedented anti-vulnerability as soon as that new beauty threatens to alter the structure of the show. Yes, sometimes I suspect that the writers of the show need the majority of characters and social configurations to fit the same descriptions throughout a 7 year narrative. I don't mind retcons to serve the narrative, or even the comedy, but the personality changes sometimes amount to leaps into alternative storylines to serve the writing process. I dislike that.

I dearly wish we'd get to see a barrier of mistrust and resentment truly give way to a more open and supportive relationship. One in particular.

There is also a line in one episode that really disturbed me the last time I heard it. It hadn't registered with me before.

	I am hinting that something I consider bad is coming.

	I am hinting that you may want to consider not noticing it. Not knowing.

	There is no action to be taken with regards to the show.

	Maybe, maybe, a little insight into what has been so normalised it does not even register, is worth it.

But if you love the show and don't have a role that makes it useful for you to know one more bad thing about it, I just wouldn't know this one.

Also, the majority of this text is... not about TV in any form.


Paris says it. A lot of the things she says are great. Some of them are even insightful, fair, or right in some way. This one is bad in an unexpected way. And in a way that is totally consistent with the tone of the show, and what has been normal, everyday lighthearted material even though it is very clearly not suited to be. This isn't really about Paris. Or the show. It is more about us.


"We need to rev up the gunships and retaliate before the next strike. We gotta go full-out Sharon."

So... that episode appears to have aired in 2003 (Die Jerk).

Israel has existed for about 55 years. Ariel Sharon, prime minister of Israel at the time, is Paris' snappy shorthand for extremely violent use of power to obliterate a perceived threat. It is just a joke. When I look it up on the internet, I find noone questioning it. Only a few mentioning that it is one of their favourite Paris lines.

I remember becoming aware of the situation. I remember reasoning, first in conversation with mom, then further in my own mind, that the only feasible safety measure is to break the cycle. I remember thinking that both the opportunity and the duty lay with Israel. And that it was in their own interest: the protective value of retaliation was resoundingly counterindicated by the fact that reasons to retaliate kept occurring.

I remember feeling relief as it became apparent that Israel -under Sharon's leadership, in fact, were adopting and sticking to a firm strategy for peace: by decisively observing the constraints of international law (without regard to whether such law has merit), they were starting to reveal an Israel that could effectively be trusted to negotiate with willingness to consider justice for all, not only the benefit of its prioritised persons. They were removing the insurmountable obstacles to peace that they had been keeping in place. After flagrant demonstrations of unreliability and disrespect, they were making a better path possible. I remember believing they would follow through. I remember believing they knew that they faced an imperfect counterpart, a fragmented and unmanageable combination of counterparts, and that they were prepared to remain firm in the face of setbacks.

But I do not remember noticing what Paris said.

Of course, I didn't watch Gilmore Girls during its first airing. So I wouldn't have. But I have still watched that episode a number of times, and picked up this detail only once.

	On a related note, I remember how stupid and self-righteous "western civilisation" is about democracy:
		X: You can't let Hamas participate in the election, they're terrorists!
		Y: But their participation is good for democracy. Let them run. Let the people choose.
		The people: We don't trust Fatah, they'll fight for themselves instead of us. A lot of us vote Hamas.
		Y: NOOOOOO YOU WERE SUPPOSED TO DEMOCRACTICALY CHOOSE THE PARTY WE LIKE! WE FORBID THIS!

Basically, our nations were being performative, indulgent jerks, glorying in their own precious democratic principles until such principles became inconvenient. If you wanted a say in who gets to be electable, you should damned well have admitted to that before the election, or forever held your peace, not pretended to be of the purest democratic mindset and gamble on democracy swinging your way so that you don't have to reveal that you're actually there to maintain direct control and secure the outcome you prefer.

But we knew that about our nations already. Those I speak of, they were unable to see the problem with turning other peoples' homes into a new nation without consent, and without the slightest regard for consent, and in plain betrayal of prior promises.

	Also, if you're of the impression that palestinians have a property in particular that serves to justify Israel's acts:

		they really don't

		there is nothing they've done that we haven't outdone a thousand times at least

the biggest wars, the greediest segregation attempts, the most oppressive empires, the wealthiest slave owners, and the best organized genociders, with the farthest reach: nothing can touch western civilization when it comes to acts that are invoked in defense of Israel's actions.

	People say what's happening there is horrible, and they show a picture of the destruction in Gaza,
	and then it turns out they thought it was a picture of Israel,
	of what was being done to Israel, not what was being done by Israel,
	and instead of learning from that mistake,
	they hide the picture

We are used to taking no notice of reality.