Apparently the Jedi would at some point have been inclined to free slaves. But not when they need power and support straight away, from slavers.

	and that should be an example of the way one actually falls to the "dark side"

It is not a question of what powers you use, and if it were, forcing people to think the thoughts you choose is one of the most invasive acts conceivable, and so a strange fit for good people, unless the sides are measured in overt violence and aggression only.

	it is a question of what you do when the world is too big and heavy, too full of wills other than yours, to change course in time to save all who concern you

	when you must fail, can you?
	
	or will you reach for the power to succeed where you can find it, such as in the reckless exertion of force, or in becoming dependent on the goodwill of slavers?
	
There should be a difficult and unclear balance between observing your own principles, and accounting for the cost in consequences.


The Jedi don't seem to have  insight into the philosophy they try to follow. I get the sense that they are children following rules to the letter, except when they break them, but not understanding where and how those rules extend and apply. Which makes sense. They get bought, stolen or given away as kids. They get indoctrinated as soon as possible, trained to want nothing more than to serve -though in practice only trained to deny other wishes and bury the agony. I can believe that axiomatic early indoctrination fosters an implementation of teachings that lacks the element of understanding.

Understanding what it is about fear that leads to the dark side. The desperation. The chance that if you apply a little more force, if only you risk breaking the world, events may take the course you can not give up on. Failing to recognise that it is time to stop; that you are risking something that isn't yours to risk. Trying to eliminate chance.

Understanding what protects you from the pressures of your fear.

	it is not enough, or anything really, to insist that the fear will claim you if ever you have something dear that you could lose
	
	actually, it is the opposite of enough, a constructed powerlessness, a path laid out before you, telling you that the moment you let life in, you are on your way to the dark side
	
Learning to experience your life, and contextualise it, and clarity and room for such things as failure, chance, loss and grief,

	that protects you from losing yourself in grief
	that gives you the means to stop yourself when you know you are overreaching,
		and not destroy the spaceship your friend is on in an effort to pull it back to the ground

Learning to trust, and to process breach of trust, and the value of your trustworthiness, being part of a community that values your personhood

	where the jedi are terified of your personhood; it is specifically what they are trying to eliminate before you become too established as yourself

Living with connections, more than one. Living through change in connections that support you.

Valuing your own insight and understanding

	certainly, you may have incorrect perceptions and misguided ideas,
	and this is not to say that you should not value the insight and understanding of others
		- in fact, you should, and in so doing you strengthen them
	but you should seek to apply your insight and understanding
	
	when presented with a warning against the dark side
	a warning against temptation
	a warning against attachment, family, love
	or an outright prohibition,
	
	when you are asked to subordinate your existence to principles and ideas
	
		you will be weak and vulnerable in your practice,
		as long as those principles are not your own,
		as long as they have no basis in your understanding,
		if the core belief is that the people who told you what to do know better than you,
		and you have no true insight outside of that,
		
		then you have no way to navigate the complexities that threaten to overwhelm you,
		you have only life on a timeline from compliance to either death or failure
	
The jedi are pretty much a dark side factory.


They also struggle with maths/physics. This thing called "balance". What does an organization that hoards the most powerful force users, curtails their natural development and connection to life -that which they say the force is all about, that operates like an auxillary police force or army, a major political actor, expect that "balance" will do for them?